
Art Brut Therapy Center
ARCH4107
Tutor: Evan Saarinen
Fall 2021
Site: Shanghai

Indivisual work

The project is located in Pudong District, Shanghai, and belongs to the historic preservation building "New Puyu Hall". Durin g the Qing Dynasty, it was a rescue station for abandoned babies. We wanted to create a treatment center with multiple programs while preserving the original building as much as possible. Through research, it is found that Art Brut's creation is spontaneous and random, and creation itself does not necessarily have a positive impact. Therefore, the main aim of the project is to improve people's psychological state through guidance and treatment.

The users of the project will consist mainly of two groups. First, for Art Brut Artiest and other patients suffering from mental illness, there are treatment rooms; Passive music therapy; And pharmacies that offer convenient and private treatments. Secondly, for ordinary people with great psychological pressure in the present society, the project has two mutual aid group activity rooms, which carry out mutual aid activities with different themes every day. In addition, music Therapy room, meditation room and Art Therapy Studio are designed as the meeting point of the two groups. The two groups can be intertwined through their own treatment programs, where ordinary people can learn more about the population of patients with mental illness, and patients can communicate with the outside world and gradually reintegrate into society. On the one hand, the linear exhibition and material space connects the second floor project, while on the other side, the broken line pattern connects the exhibition and other projects

In addition, the project explores an experimental concept: irrational space. The project irrigates an area with a soft foam material to form several organic Spaces of different scales. Irrational space is the reduction of nature. It is the essence of human nature without culture and order,  just like Art Brut himself. Using scale instead of function, the project ensures an undefined space at three scales,  with users planning the use of the space. The images of irrational space include the womb;  shelter;  cave.
